Hi, welcome to session 202 PDF Kit.
I'm John Calhoun and I'm
the engineer for PDF Kit.
So what I'm going to talk to you
about today in this session is I've
kind of broken it up into four parts.
The first part I'll tell
you what PDF Kit is,
kind of what constitutes it,
kind of how all the pieces fit together.
And then for the last three parts
what I'm going to do is give you
kind of some practical examples
of how you might use PDF Kit.
And for the first part of those,
part two, I'll show you what most
developers want to do,
which is display a
PDF in their application.
And I'll probably spend the most
time actually on that section.
But I don't want people to be left
with the impression that all you
can do in PDF Kit is display PDFs.
So part three and four I'll spend
a little time on I guess kind of
maybe what are a little bit more,
I don't know, creative uses of PDF Kit.
But first, what is PDF Kit?
Well, it's a suite of Cocoa classes.
It's built on top of Quartz 2D,
so you already have, for example,
in Core Graphics,
you already have the C API for PDF,
handling PDFs.
And so what PDF Kit is,
is our Cocoa classes that take advantage
of those C API and give you kind of a
Cocoa object model for dealing with PDFs.
It's been used in preview.
If you've ever opened a PDF in
preview on Tiger or Leopard,
you've been using PDF Kit.
It's been used for the default
PDF plugin in Safari as well.
And on Leopard, I don't know,
the new preview services
framework is using it,
so Spotlight's using
PDF Kit when you search for PDFs.
[Transcript missing]
Here's a text selection.
I'll kind of tell you why
that's significant in a minute,
but I kind of,
I chose this screenshot intentionally
to kind of show you that there's a
text selection that spans two pages.
And that's a little interesting.
I'll tell you about that in a second.
And finally, and maybe I should
have started with this,
there's the viewer itself,
whether it's Adobe Reader or Preview or
any number of Safari or Internet plugins,
there's the application that
you view the PDF within.
So the way all these sort
of elements map to PDF Kit,
the file is represented in
PDF Kit by a PDF document class.
So if you have a file on disk and,
you know,
the PDF document will map to some file on
disk or some data or something like that.
And so sort of file elements like the
number of pages and stuff you'll find
by asking the PDF document class.
Pages are represented
by PDF page objects.
So for each page in a PDF,
there will be a PDF page object
that represents the file.
So if you have a PDF document class,
you'll find that the PDF document
class represents that page.
If there are annotations on the page,
then from the PDF page object,
you would get back an array of those
objects and they come to you as they're
returned as PDF annotation objects.
PDF outline, if it has one,
is represented by a PDF outline or
actually several PDF outline objects.
They kind of form a tree structure.
If the user does things like
select text and that sort of thing,
the way you can,
the way we represent that is
with a PDF selection object.
It wasn't really a PDF selection object.
It wasn't really enough to use, say,
if you think of like an NS TextView where
you just have contiguous text,
you might be able to represent
a selection with just a range.
But because of the nature of PDF and
selections can span multiple pages
and there isn't really sort of
like contiguous text that runs from
one end of the PDF to the other,
we had to create this object,
this PDF selection object.
So it can, from the PDF selection,
you can find out, you know,
the pages that are
covered by the selection,
where, you know,
what text is covered by the selection.
That sort of thing.
And then finally, the viewer,
PDFKit has the PDF view
and the PDF thumbnail view.
And the thumbnail view
is new for Leopard.
I'll show you that in a second.
Here's the class hierarchy as of
Tiger and you see that at the top I've
got PDF view and since it's a subclass
of NS view and NS responder you get all
those kinds of view things and responder
things so the PDF view has a bounds,
has a frame, has a draw method,
it can take mouse events,
key down events, that sort of thing.
The other class is just a subclass
of NS object so they're kind of more
basic classes and you see PDF border,
PDF destination,
those are kind of esoteric.
I probably won't go into those at
all this session but there's the
document outline page selection.
There's the PDF annotation and I didn't
have room on the slide but there's maybe
a dozen PDF annotation subclasses where
each one of the subclasses will map to a
particular type of annotation like PDF.
Like a link annotation for example.
So there's a PDF annotation
link class to represent that.
So what we did for Tiger is
we added another view class,
the PDF thumbnail view and we added
a whole new sort of base class,
the PDF action.
And it has a number of subclasses similar
to the annotation and we also added a
few more annotation subclasses as well.
So I guess one way to kind of think
of all these PDF Kit classes is to
really think of them in two camps,
the view classes and everything else.
So the view classes,
like the thumbnail view and the PDF view,
those are sort of high level classes.
And as you might imagine,
they're using all these other classes.
The PDF view will be
associated with a PDF document.
From the document it can find out the
pages and display the pages and handle
annotations and that sort of thing.
So the rest of the classes I guess
I call utility or kind of base classes.
And even though PDF view and
PDF thumbnail view use these classes,
and if you're just writing an
app that just displays a PDF,
you might only need to really use
the higher level view classes,
the thumbnail view and the PDF view.
But it doesn't mean that you
can't use these utility classes
and take advantage of them.
And I'll show you in the last
two parts of this session.
If you saw his demo,
I guess it was Monday,
I'm going to show you that demo again,
but I'll try to...
I'll try to explain a little
bit more about what's going on.
So I'm going into the developer folder
and this is a standard Leopard install.
So you can,
if you've installed your Leopard,
you could do this as well.
Go into the applications and
open the new interface builder.
I'll go ahead and create
a Cocoa window template.
And so it's given me
an empty window here.
If I bring up the library,
Here are all the objects.
And like I said,
for this version of Leopard,
the PDF view is right there.
It looks like a little PDF icon.
So I can just drop that in to my view.
And we're kind of cheating here.
If I see I'm inside
Interface Builder in PDF Kit,
I go ahead and give you
some sample content.
I say cheating because you'll
have to provide your own
content in your application.
So here's a PDF view,
here's a thumbnail view.
I'll control drag from the thumbnail
view to the PDF view and you see that
one of its outlets is a PDF view.
So by clicking that and
establishing this relationship,
the thumbnail view can always sort of,
I don't know,
sort of parasitically I guess,
it can kind of query the view to find
out the document that the view is showing
and any of the sort of display mode,
whatever display mode the document is in,
the thumbnail view can, or sorry,
any display mode that the PDF view is in,
the PDF thumbnail view
can kind of get that from.
So it's important to tell the
thumbnail view whose PDF view he has.
Let me, let me see.
Before I group these together,
I'll show you a few other things that
you can find right here in the inspector.
If I bring up the inspector and
interface builder for the PDF view,
you can see a few settings.
I can change whether
or not it auto scales.
I can say display two up.
I can turn on and off page breaks.
There's other ways you can
configure the PDF view as well,
but you have to do that programmatically.
These are the only ones that we
expose through the inspector.
I'll go ahead and go back to
the single page continuous.
While I'm here, I'll check the springs.
I'll set the springs
on the thumbnail view.
The thumbnail view has
a few settings as well.
We can set the maximum
size for the thumbnails,
the maximum number of columns,
a few other things.
Let me go ahead and group these into a
split view and set the springs on that.
So, kind of the point of this
demo is to show you how much
How much you get, I guess,
for free from PDF Kit,
from PDF View and PDF Thumbnail
View without writing any code.
Again, like I said, I'm kind of cheating.
I'm giving you a sample document here,
but you see I can select text.
I can scroll.
I can even drag this text to the desktop
and get a text clipping out of it.
I can, if there's links in the document,
you see the cursor changes to a hand.
I get a tool tip telling
me where that link,
the destination for that link.
I click.
It takes me there.
And all the while I'm doing this,
the thumbnail view is
kind of following along.
It's getting notifications from the
PDF view that the page has changed.
And so over here, it's updating and
selecting the current page.
And similarly, or in reverse,
I can select pages in the thumbnail view.
And it tells its PDF view,
go to this page, go to this page,
go to this page.
And something that we added because
we could is in the thumbnail view,
you can reorder the pages.
So I can drag page two to page one,
and you'll see that sure enough,
the title page has moved
to the second place,
and the Apple legalese has moved
to the top of the document.
So I can reorder pages however I want.
If I had two thumbnail views up,
I could just drag them to
the top of the document.
I can even drag a page from
one PDF into another PDF.
And in fact,
if you've got Leopard running,
you can run preview on
Leopard and try that.
Open two PDFs and drag
pages from one to the other.
Because, as I say,
preview is built on top of PDF kit.
Since we had drag support,
we went ahead and added
support for dragging in files.
So if I grab a couple of images here.
If I drag a couple of images
into the thumbnail view,
what happens?
It's going to drag a couple of
images into the thumbnail view.
What it's doing is generating
new PDF pages and inserting them
into the current PDF document.
And sure enough,
they just behave like full-fledged
PDF document citizens.
And if I were to save
this PDF out or print it,
the pages would be there.
I'll show you something else
that Peter didn't show you.
I can even drag PDFs in.
Let's see.
I'm going to take a small one.
Here's a two-page PDF.
I'll insert this two-page PDF there.
So I just inserted
another PDF into this PDF.
So anyway, this is kind of some of
the stuff that you get.
Thanks.
that you get for free from PDF Kit.
I can go back to the slides now.
But I think that's a great demo,
but in a way it's kind of misleading,
not only because I create
kind of fake content for you,
but I think it's a little misleading
because I think it can give the
impression that that's all PDF Kit is,
is that it just displays PDF content and,
you know,
it's kind of like a PDF viewer in a box.
And it kind of is,
but I like to think there's more,
so I'll focus on that on
the last two sections.
But let me go ahead and continue with
sort of like how you would write an
application to display PDF content.
I cheated.
You do have to associate a
PDF document somehow with that view.
So the way you do that is
with a PDF document class,
and this is probably the only utility
class you really would really have to use
if all you wanted to do was display PDF.
You have to create a PDF document object.
In this particular application I have,
say, a file on disk,
so I'm going to call PDF document Alec
and it with URL and then just pass
it a URL that represents that file.
If I had data, instead,
there's a similar call to create
a PDF document from NSData.
And as long as everything goes okay,
as long as I passed it a real PDF,
I'll get back a PDF document object.
So I just, on my view,
let's say it's called my PDF view,
I just call set document.
And as soon as I do that,
the PDF view retains the document,
so first of all I can release it.
But just as there's a set
document method on the view,
there's also a document method,
so I can always ask the document,
or sorry, I can always ask the
view for its document.
Again, in case I want to know, you know,
the number of pages or
something like that.
So as far as I'm concerned,
I can just forget about
the document at this point.
So it's really just one or
two lines of code and you can
forget all about PDF document.
But, oh, and I should say too, well,
you know, let me go to the next slide
because it kind of ties in.
As soon as you associate a
PDF document with the view,
there's all kinds of things that
the PDF view now has access to.
And here are some of the attributes
that you can call methods on a PDF.
So you can call the
PDF document that you can call,
and these are the things
that the PDF view is doing.
So you can find out the number of pages.
And by extension,
you can imagine that the thumbnail view
is also finding out the number of pages,
so it can determine how
many thumbnails to draw.
For each one of the pages in the PDF,
you can get that page object.
And so there are methods
on the PDF document to say,
give me the page at index, you know, I.
I should maybe mention
that PDF kit is zero based.
So if it's a five page page.
And you want the last page,
you'd get page four.
And page zero represents the first page.
So there's methods on
the document for adding,
removing, deleting pages,
reordering pages.
And again,
you can imagine that the thumbnail view
basically is calling those methods.
But there's no reason you can't
programmatically call those
methods as well if you want to
insert pages into a PDF document.
[Transcript missing]
Some of these, well,
some of PDF View's aspects.
I'll open up the PDF Kit guide.
So here's the preview on Leopard
if you haven't seen it already.
Change the UI a little bit.
So PDF View on the left.
I've got a toolbar and there's a
previous next button and you'll see
that the previous button is disabled.
I click on next,
it goes to the next page.
Now the previous button is enabled.
Next, next, next, etc.
I can see if I customize the toolbar,
there's a few more tools
I can bring in here.
Here's a back forward button.
Here's a page text field.
So if I click on a link here,
like where does this go, to page 10,
I'm on page 5, I click on the link.
If I hit the back button now,
I go from page 10 back to page 5.
So PDF view is maintaining
a whole history,
kind of like a navigation
history for you.
And I'm able to just wire my
back and forward buttons or,
you know, menu items up to the PDF views
back and forward methods.
I can enter in a specific
page number here.
Let me type in, you know, page 20.
Hit enter.
It goes to page 20.
And you'll notice, too, that as I've been
navigating the document,
that page number has
been updating as well.
I'll show you how that's done.
Here's some kind of more display options.
I can zoom in, zoom out.
You saw in Interface Builder how I was
able to change the kind of the layout,
one page, two page.
There's some other, let me go to page 1,
I'll show you.
There's some esoteric things in here,
too, that you can find buried
in Previews Preferences.
You can turn on and off anti-aliasing,
for example.
It's probably not obvious up here.
It's pretty subtle for
large text like that.
Greeking,
everyone asks me what text Greeking is.
If I change it to 50,
you see how the text turned
into those gray rectangles?
It's kind of a performance enhancement.
It says, if the font is less than
the Greeking threshold,
don't even bother to draw the characters.
Just represent them as gray boxes.
You can imagine, even with the,
I think the default Greeking
threshold is probably three,
not three points, three pixels, because,
let's do that again.
If I were to zoom in here, for example,
you'll see that as soon as the
text goes past that threshold,
it's not Greek.
So it's not a function of point size.
It's a function of how
large the text gets drawn.
So I'm glad I explained that.
I get that a lot.
But to give you sort of a
practical example of it,
the thumbnail view here is
with the Greeking set to three.
Obviously, there's no point in rendering
all the text in these thumbnails,
because you're not going
to be able to read it.
So it can be a lot quicker.
The PDF page can draw its content a
lot quicker if the Greeking threshold
is set to some reasonable value.
Let me just show you the
outline again real quick.
So this PDF has an outline.
If I collapse it,
you'll see there's something called
PDF Kit Programming Guide and
it's taking me to the first page.
It's got a twist down disclosure
triangle which tells me that it has
children and in fact it has six children.
Its first child is contents, tables,
introduction and then its fourth
child has children as well.
So I can twist that down and you
see that it has two children.
PDF basics,
more children and then these are sort
of I guess you think of them as sort
of like leaf nodes so the outline is
kind of a tree structure and it starts
actually it doesn't start here at the
PDF kit programming guide it actually
starts at the root and the root is kind
of a special instance of the PDF outline
it's never drawn it's never displayed it
acts simply as a container and in fact
the root in this example for this PDF has
only one child the PDF kit programming
guide but then that is a PDF outline
as well which has let me twist this up
again which has six children etc all
the way down so let me go back to the
slides and I'll kind of show you how you
Where did I leave the clicker?
I'll show you how you do that in code.
Well, it's pretty straightforward,
the navigation part.
So my next button, previous button,
or menu items,
I just wire those up to go to next page,
go to previous page.
There's a go back, go forward,
and then again, PDF view is maintaining
the history for you.
If you want to enable and
disable your controls,
there's some convenience method,
can go back, can go forward,
that just return Boolean so you can just
set those up to enable your controls.
And similarly,
there's a can go to next page,
can go to previous page as well.
So for the example where the text
field where I typed in page 20,
that requires two lines of code.
You have to take the 20 that
the user entered and subtract
one because we're zero based.
And then there's a
method on the document.
And here's an example
again where the PDF view,
since it holds the document,
I can ask my PDF view to
give me the PDF document.
And then the document has
the page and index method.
So I say to the document,
give me page and index.
19.
And I get back a PDF page object.
And so on the PDF view,
there's a method called go to page,
takes that object, and bam,
you go to page 20.
So pretty straightforward.
The reverse where as I navigated
through the document that
text field was updating,
that's handled with a notification.
And there's a PDF view
page change notification.
In fact, that's what the thumbnail
view listens to as well.
So if your application listens
to the page change notification,
you can find out the current page,
get the page's label,
and then you can go back
and do the same thing.
So you can see that the page change
notification is now available,
which is like the page number.
And you can display
that in your text field.
So that's also trivial to do.
So some of the other ways
that you can sort of handle
the PDF view display options,
I mentioned,
or I showed you in interface builder
how you can change the layout.
And if you do that programmatically,
there's a call called set display
mode and we've defined some
constants that are the sort of
layouts that PDF view supports.
You can change the display boxes.
You can turn on and off page breaks.
I showed you that.
Scaling, I showed you zooming in,
zooming out.
Greeking, anti-aliasing.
I'm kind of hesitant to talk
about the display boxes.
It's kind of a strange PDF thing that,
gosh, now I guess I have to.
Suffice it to say that
PDF pages can have,
not always, but they can have
different sort of bounds,
basically.
What you're supposed to typically use,
like in a display application,
like in Adobe Reader or Preview,
is to show the crop bounds,
the crop box for the pages.
But a page could have a
media box that's larger,
that might have extra white
space that's good for printing,
but not necessarily,
it might take up too much screen
real estate if you were to
display it using the media box.
There's bleed boxes, art box, trim box,
and PDF Kit supports all those things.
And you can tell the PDF view to show
the media box or show the crop box.
So the thumbnail view,
I don't think there's much
I really have to say about that.
I pretty much showed you
all the aspects of that.
It's got an outlet view.
There's a few display options on that,
the maximum number of columns
you want it to display.
It gets the page change notification,
get drag and drop, delete.
I guess the one thing I should mention
though is if the user does that,
if they reorder the pages or
drag in images or delete a
page or something like that,
the PDF thumbnail view will send
your application or whoever's
listening for this notification
like a PDF edited notification.
So that way your application can set the
dirty flag or whatever you want to do.
You can also turn off all
that page dragging stuff.
So here's how you get the
outline from the PDF document.
There's a method called PDF.
It's called outline root.
And again, I'm asking for the
PDF view for its document.
So I get back this PDF document
object and I ask for its outline root.
And what I get back is if
the PDF has an outline,
I get back a PDF outline object.
If it doesn't have one, I get back null.
And so that's sort of
the root PDF outline.
From that, I can ask for its children
and its children's children,
et cetera.
And that's how I can build
up that whole outline view.
Which, by the way,
that is just a... That is
just an NS outline view.
There's no special
PDF outline view for PDFKit.
So here's some other
attributes of the outline.
And I should mention, too,
that there's some sample code, actually.
If you go to developers, examples,
I think it's under Quartz, PDFKit.
There's a PDFKit viewer application.
And they show you how
to display the outline.
It's probably four or five lines of code.
You just give it.
It's an NS outline view.
And you put an NS outline
view in your window.
And you just supply a couple
of the delegate methods.
And basically the outline
view just runs with it.
And you're able to display
the whole tree of the outline.
Some of the outline attributes
are the number of children.
So that's how many children
the outline item has.
For each of its children,
you can get those children.
And those children are themselves
PDF outline objects that may or
may not have children as well.
There is a label.
That's the string that gets displayed.
The root, again, is special.
It won't have a label.
And there's a destination.
And that's where if the
user clicks on this item,
what should I do?
What action should I perform?
Generally, it's a destination somewhere
within the document.
Go to page 14 or whatever.
Again, the root outline is special.
It won't have a destination.
So what we did in Leopard,
and there's a lot of
editing methods here.
First of all, there's an init method.
So you can create a PDF outline.
So your application might,
if there's no outline
associated with a document,
your application might, for example,
create an outline object.
Say, OK, well,
this is going to be the root.
Then you can create
other outline objects.
Let's say you're going to have,
let's say the document has five chapters.
So you might create five
more PDF outline objects.
And for these, you would set the label,
chapter one, chapter two,
chapter three on each of those.
So there's a set label method.
Once you have those five outline items,
you'll want to make them
children of the root.
So there's a set child or add child
method so that you can take the five,
add all of those to the root,
and now you've essentially got your tree.
For each of those children,
then you can set an action.
You can say chapter one goes
to page four and chapter two
goes to page 14 or whatever.
And then finally,
as I mentioned on the PDF document slide,
then you finally you can say set
outline root and then the document's
going to retain the whole tree.
You can release it.
And when you save that
document out in Leopard,
the whole outline gets preserved.
And in fact, again,
if you want to sort of try that out,
go into preview on your Leopard,
your Leopard install and open a
PDF that has an outline and save it.
And you'll see that the that
the outline is preserved.
And in fact, I should say, too,
I don't think I'll
have time to demo this.
But if you kind of play
around with preview,
I don't know that I don't know that
this is going to stay in when we ship.
But right now there's a way that
you can go in and create and edit.
And change the outline of the PDF inside
preview on the Leopard install.
OK, so.
Let me go once more to preview
just to show you searching.
Okay, I'm going to type in outline.
Okay,
so what Preview did is it went out and,
or rather I should say PDF Kit did,
it went out and found 123 occurrences
of the word outline in this document.
And the first one is selected here.
You see that it was found on page three.
Section.
Great.
There's another name.
So think outline.
Think bookmark.
The first instance was found in
the contents outline or section.
If I switch back to the outline you'll
see that it's going to show you that,
yeah, right here there's a section,
one of the items in the
outline is called contents.
So in the search result it's telling
you that this instance of the word
outline was found in the contents.
And in fact on the right there's,
let me make this bigger
so that you can see,
there's a whole bunch
of sample text here,
kind of contextual text that
shows you other text that
was found around that word.
In the middle is the word outline there.
And you see that pages 10, outlines 11,
that's some of the text that
was found around that word.
The next example was
also found on page three.
And as I'm selecting these over in the
table view you'll see that they're being
selected over in the PDF view as well.
Then there were four of them
found on page five in the tables,
figures, and listings section.
One was found in the introduction.
But one thing that's kind of nice is,
sorry, is that as soon as
you're able to do that,
as soon as you're able to,
for any given instance of the word,
you're able to find the word outline.
So if you're able to find the word,
find out the page, the outline section,
sample text,
what you can do is do things like this.
You see the check box in the top.
We've got above the search results
we've got group by section.
And if I check that box we've kind
of switched in a new table view that
shows you kind of a relevancy ranking.
So you see that 88 instances of
the word outline were found in the
section called creating outlines.
So maybe that allows a user,
let me see here.
turn on the scrolling here.
So now that tells the user that maybe
this is the section of the document
that you're looking for and you see
that every instance in this case
of the word outline is highlighted.
So that's that.
I'll go back to the slides and I'll
show you how you can do things like
that or even more in your application.
So there's kind of two ways of
searching that PDF Kit supports.
One method is I call search method one,
well I call it the like text edit
style of searching where maybe
a dialogue box comes up and the
user types in a word like outline.
And there's a next and a previous button.
And they click on next and it finds the
first instance and they click on next
again and it finds the next instance,
etc.
That's supported in PDF Kit but
I'm not going to go into that.
I'll instead show you what preview
is doing and I call that the sort
of Google search method which is
search method two to say basically
go out and just find every
instance of the word outline.
And the way you do that
is at the document level,
the PDF document,
you say begin find string and you pass
in the string outline and options.
So these are app kit search options
so I can say search backwards,
case insensitive search
or literal search.
And the PDF document is
just going to go off.
It's an asynchronous call.
You make the call and you're done.
The user can continue
to use your application,
resize the window, click on links, etc.
PDF document is off racing
along trying to find every
instance of the word outline.
It's going to start on page one
and search for the word outline.
Go to page two,
page three and it's going to work
its way through the whole document.
And the way your application
will find out about sort of the
progress is with notifications.
Or with the delegate method.
So, you know,
I'm going to go ahead and do that.
So I give an example here that
if you have an object in your
application that's a delegate for
the PDF view or for the PDF document,
it'll look for a method
called did match string.
And if you've implemented this,
your did match string will get called
every time the word outline was found.
And so your did match string
might look something like this.
I'm passed in a PDF selection
and I'll tell you a little bit
more about that in a second.
So all my application does here
is I just take that instance
and I add it to an array.
And presumably I have some
kind of a table view that's
showing the search results.
So I need to tell that table view
to reload its data because we've
got another instance came in.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that.
So why is PDF selection
passed in for a search method?
It's kind of strange.
I guess one way to think of it is
to imagine that the user literally
went through and started selecting
each instance of the word outline.
I mean it's kind of a strange analogy,
but by passing your application
this PDF selection object,
because of all sort of the
attributes that you can query
about the PDF selection,
it gives you the ability to do
those things we did in preview.
So for example, there's a page or pages
attribute on a PDF selection.
So when your delegate method gets called,
the word outline was found,
you can find out which page that
is just by asking the selection for
the page that the selection is on.
From the page I can get the page label,
page three for example,
and that's how I populate the first
column of my table view in preview.
You can get the bounds for the
selection for a given page.
You can find the nearest
PDF outline item.
So this is the way I was able
to find the bounds for the
selection for a given page.
You can also find out for example
that the first instance was
found in the contents section.
So again, once I have the PDF outline
item for that selection,
I can get its label, contents,
and I can put that in the second column.
Finally, you can add selections together.
It's not as interesting for searching,
but for example, if a user was,
if you wanted to support,
this is more in the
text selection domain,
if you wanted to allow a
user to select some text,
you could do that.
You can add some text,
hold down some modifier key
and select some additional
text and add those selections.
You can do that.
It's kind of a Boolean add.
And you can get the
string for a selection.
Basically you're asking the
selection what text are you covered.
And obviously when you're doing a
search for the word outline and your
did match string method gets called,
the selection string is
going to be the word outline.
So it's probably not that interesting.
But this next method that allows
you to extend the selection
allows you to arbitrarily kind of
grow the tail of the selection.
So you can grow the head of the
selection 20 characters so that you've
got 40 plus characters selected.
So that now if you call the
string method on this selection,
you can get that third column in preview,
which is kind of that contextual text.
So in fact, you can grow a selection all
the way to the front and bottom
of the document if you want.
So, wow, okay,
so that was how you use PDF Kit to
display PDF in your app.
And there are plenty of sample code.
In addition to the one I mentioned,
there's other sample code that you can
download from DTS that shows you how to
do the searching and that sort of thing.
But let me see, are we ready for a demo?
Yeah, okay.
So I guess I'm moving on now to...
Kind of more of the fun things
you can do with PDF Kit.
So I wrote this little application
called PDF Calendar and the point
of it is to show you how to do,
I've had users or developers ask me how
to create pages and they were trying
to do some kind of strange things like,
you
Like in App Kit, you can get a PDF from a
selection or from a rectangle,
from a view,
and then you get a PDF and they try to,
you get a PDF, you get data from that,
and it's basically a PDF document.
So they create a PDF document in
App Kit and then get the first
page from that and try to add it.
I thought, you know,
that's not really what I'd
intended for users to do.
I thought that what you would do
if you wanted to create PDF content
would just be to subclass PDF page,
the class.
Subclass the object PDF page.
Create your own object and then
just supply the draw method.
And I'll show you what I'm doing here.
I've just,
this is kind of a lame interface.
I'm not going to sit here
and drag 12 images in.
Four will suffice.
But okay, so it takes 12 images.
I click the make calendar button.
And basically that's just
what my app did is it,
here's the thumbnail view again.
I just put it into a
drawer for old time's sake.
That's basically what my app did.
And the source code to this is available.
But basically what I did is when
the user clicks on make calendar,
I created a new PDF document object.
Now, if I don't initialize one
with a file or with data,
if I just call init and
create a PDF document object,
I get an empty object back.
It has no pages.
It's a document,
but it has no pages associated with it.
So since it's going to be a calendar,
I want 12 pages.
So I created 12 PDF page objects.
But like I say, I used to, you know,
I used to do a lot of things with it.
But I created a subclass of PDF page.
So let's say I called it my PDF page.
So I created, I allocated one of my
PDF page objects and,
or 12 of them in fact.
And for each one of the 12,
I gave them an image.
I told them what month they are.
And then in the draw
method for that page,
I just simply draw the image.
I draw the month.
I draw a grid.
And if I had more time,
I suppose I could draw the dates and,
you know, sync up with iCal.
Or something like that.
But anyway,
this kind of gives you an idea of
the kind of thing that you could,
oh, and once I create,
so I should finish.
So once I created these 12 page objects,
and I add them to the document,
and then I tell the document, you know,
to associate itself with this PDF view,
I call set document on the view.
And so it just behaves as though,
you know, it's a regular PDF document,
except that it only exists, you know,
in memory right now.
Again, if I save,
if I print the documents,
methods for saving get called.
What happens internally is
for each page of the document,
in this case a 12 page document,
for each of those 12 pages,
the document will create,
it creates one PDF context,
and then says begin page for page one,
and then it will call the
first page and say draw.
And basically the page will
draw as though it were going
to a PDF view or anywhere else,
except that in this scenario,
it's being captured and
recorded into a PDF context.
So I call end page, begin page again,
I go to page two,
and I call the first page and say draw.
I do this for all 12 pages,
and then the PDF context
gets flushed to disk,
and that's how you get
your PDF out of that.
So, let's see.
I'll go back to the slides.
So that's PDF Calendar.
So I'll show you just a little
bit in detail what I did.
I guess since I've talked
a lot about PDF Page here,
but I haven't really told you what it is.
Here's some of the
attributes of PDF Page.
If it's been added to a document,
then I can ask the page for its document.
So there's kind of a way from sort of
just the page level to walk up the chain,
so to speak, and find out which document
that page is associated with.
Page has a bounds associated with it.
In fact, it can have multiple bounds.
It can have different crop boxes and
media boxes and that sort of thing,
as I explained.
Pages can have a rotation
associated with them.
It's usually zero,
but it can be any multiple of 90.
Pages can have annotations.
They can, the page is where the
text in the PDF lies,
unfortunately.
So it means that, you know,
a hundred page PDF,
each page contains that little piece
of text from that PDF document.
So it's at the page level
that you would extract,
that you would get the text
from a PDF if you want.
And then finally,
the PDF Page has a draw method,
obviously.
So the PDF View is calling
the PDF Page's draw method.
That's how the PDF View is able
to display the page contents.
And in my application that I showed you,
I just overrode that draw
method and drew my own contents.
Some people would like a
kind of a convenience method.
So for Leopard we added
this init with image.
So there's an init method on a
PDF page where you just pass in an
NS image and you get back a page.
And in fact, again,
this is what the PDF thumbnail view
is calling when you drag an image in.
And so finally, here's what my code did.
So I had to override bounds for box.
There's only really two methods that you
have to supply if you subclass PDF page.
The bounds for box,
you have to tell it how big you are.
It doesn't know otherwise.
All coordinates in PDF Kit are in points.
That's what Adobe defines for PDF.
So that's 72 points per inch.
So if I want my page
to be 8.5 by 11 inches,
I have to return that in points.
So that's the 612 by 792.
That's 8.5 by 11 in points.
So then the other method,
I now say the document or by
extension the view knows how big I am.
Now it's going to say, well,
draw yourself.
So here's my draw method.
I don't care about crop box or media box,
so I'm pretty much ignoring that
box parameter that was passed in.
And I'm going,
this is an oversimplification
of the code,
but I'm going to draw an image,
I'm going to draw some text,
and I'm going to draw a grid.
And any kind of drawing
that you want to do,
including drawing of other PDFs,
you just do within your draw method.
Okay,
I don't expect everybody to know what
all the various annotations in a PDF are.
If you go to Adobe's site,
you can download the PDF spec.
It's almost 2,000 pages, I think,
and it goes into all the
flavors of annotations.
I'll show you a few of them in a minute.
I've got a demo that
illustrates a lot of these.
But here's some of the names of
the classes that were in Tiger for
the subclasses of the annotation.
Here's button widgets, circle.
You can imagine what some of these are.
There's link, and you can imagine line
is a line annotation.
Markup, square text.
For Leopard, we added three more.
We added another kind
of widget annotation,
the choice widget.
We added a pop-up annotation
and the stamp annotation.
All annotations have a
few attributes in common.
They all have a type,
so you can ask an annotation for its
type and the line annotation will
tell you that it's of type line.
Link will tell you
that it's of type link.
Then if an annotation
has been added to a page,
you can ask the annotation
for the page that owns it.
So again,
you can go all the way up the chain.
You can ask the annotation for its page,
the page for its document,
and go all the way to the top if
for some reason your annotation
needs to know about the document.
PDF annotation has a
bounds associated with it.
That's where it lays on the page
in the page's coordinate space,
and again, it's in points.
And the annotation like the
page has a draw method as well,
so that it knows how
to draw its annotation.
So then all the sort of various
subclasses like the link,
the line, the circle,
they're going to have kind of like
subclass specific attributes and calls.
So you imagine the link annotation will
have a destination or a method on it.
So that's going to tell you
where this link is going to take
you if the user clicks on it.
The circle annotation is
going to have a color and,
you know, the line width for the circle,
that sort of thing.
So what we did in addition to
the three new annotations that
we added for Leopard is we added,
as I mentioned, this whole new class,
this PDF action class.
And so the way that fits in is
there are setters and getter
actions now on the PDF annotations.
So you could either ask for
the link's destination or
you could ask for its action.
If you ask for the action for a link,
you'll get back an
appropriate go-to action,
which basically is an action that
means go to this destination.
There's setters, getters, and in fact,
there's methods on the
PDF view perform action.
So you could get the action from
an annotation and then tell the
PDF view perform this action.
And if it's a go-to page or something,
the PDF view will go to that page.
And then all the annotations
have all kinds of setters.
So all the attributes that you
can read from an annotation,
you can write as well, you can set.
So here's the PDF action class and
really the only thing that all the
actions share is the type method.
So any given action you can ask for
its type and it'll tell you if it's
a type go to or a named action.
It's the subclasses that have kind
of the subclass specific attributes.
So a go to action
indicates a destination.
So there's going to be a method
on the go to action for getting
and setting the destination.
A URL action is going to be a
method on the go to action for
getting and setting the destination.
A mail action,
which is an action that would launch your
web browser or your mail application,
that's going to have a getter
and setter for the URL.
So I'm actually going to
spend the rest of this session
I'm in a demo.
Let's see how many minutes I have
left because I could actually demo
for hours if I wanted to on this.
I won't.
I'll try to keep it
to 15 minutes or less.
You know what,
if I have time maybe I'll show you
the outline editing in preview.
So here's an application called
PDF Annotation Editor and I should
point out that this as well as
the calendar application are
downloadable from the developer.
I'm not sure how it works.
Somehow, you know, session 202,
there's files associated with it.
You'll find all these demos that I'm
showing you today and ones that were
done last year for Tiger downloadable
associated with session 202.
So let me just open
up an annotation here.
This one only runs on Tiger.
So the calendar, I think,
is the one that's running.
I guess the calendar demo
only runs on Tiger as well,
or only runs on Leopard as well.
Did I say this one runs only on Tiger?
I meant Leopard.
Okay.
The demos I'm showing you
today only run on Leopard.
So I've just opened a PDF here
and I went ahead and chose one.
We don't need the thumbnail
view in this case.
I picked a PDF here that has
a lot of annotations on it,
partly to kind of illustrate
to you what annotations are.
Something I'm doing here
in this application,
and you can look at the source,
I'm subclassing PDF view.
And the PDF view has a draw page
method so that every time the
PDF view is about to draw a page,
it calls its draw page method.
So all you have to do,
or all I'm doing in this application
is I subclass PDF view and I implement
draw page myself in my subclass.
Now if I don't really care about
doing anything in particular,
I can just call super and
inside my draw page method and
let the PDF view do its job.
I can just go in and let
the PDF view handle drawing,
for example, you know,
this page of the PDF.
But then what I can do and what
I'm doing here is after the
PDF view has drawn the PDF,
I'm going to go in and
I'm going to loop over,
well, I'm going to find out if there
are any annotations on the page.
And then I'm going to,
for each annotation,
I'm going to loop over and get its
bounds and draw a gray rectangle.
So that's why you see what
might look like odd rectangles
around some of the annotations.
And in fact, I'm doing hit testing.
In my subclass,
so I can determine that an
annotation was clicked on and
I can make that annotation,
I've got a notion of like
an active annotation.
So I can draw it differently.
Here I'm keeping track of it and drawing
it with a red boundary around it.
So I can click on various annotations
and you'll see the red boundary.
That's all handled with
the PDF view subclass.
And you probably noticed over
here on this little panel,
that's what most of this
code actually entailed,
was writing this panel.
You'll see that as
I click on an annotation,
like this circle annotation here,
you'll see this panel is reflecting
all number of attributes.
These are some of the things, the calls,
the attributes that you can get
from the PDF annotation classes.
So I see that this is a subtype circle.
That's by calling the type method.
I see there's some contents.
It's got some text,
some content attribute.
It's got a border color, red.
There's no interior color.
So I can see that there's interior color.
That box is not checked.
I see that it's flags indicate
that it's to be displayed,
which it is, and printed as well.
If I uncheck this, it wouldn't print.
You'd see it when you
opened it in your browser,
in your viewer,
but when you printed it out,
that annotation wouldn't be there.
I can also uncheck this.
It would be really mystifying to users.
They don't see it,
but when they print it, it shows up.
Although I suppose you could
put an annotation that says,
"You weren't supposed to
print this," or something.
And there's no action,
although here are the actions
that PDF Kit supports.
It does have a border and
it's got a thickness of 8
pixels and it's not dashed.
So I can try some of these other
annotations and see that okay,
here's another one with
a different border color,
no contents this time.
Here's one with obviously
a dashed border.
This one does have an interior color.
Here's a markup annotation.
This one is a type highlight.
There's strikeout and underline.
Here's one of the strikeout annotations.
Here's an underline annotation.
This one's known as a free
text annotation as opposed
to a text annotation,
which is an annotation that has
a pop-up associated with it.
In fact, if I check the is open, oh,
it's over here.
If I check the is open attribute,
you can see what it looks
like with the pop-up.
when its pop-up is open, see?
No action again.
So here's some line annotations with
different line start and end styles.
These are interesting.
These are interesting because
they're stamp annotations.
They're interesting
because they don't have,
if you looked at all the rest of these
annotations like the circle for example,
there are parameters that describe them.
Red border, 8 pixels thick, no dash,
here's its bounds.
I could display that just
with those attributes.
So there's sort of a parameterized,
I guess you'd say,
version of this annotation.
But the stamps don't really
have a parameterized version.
I mean I see that the contents are big
stamp and that the name for that stamp
annotation is pound D confidential,
but that doesn't really tell me
there's no sort of set defined
stamps that you can just given these
meager attributes draw the stamp.
So what Adobe did is
they have this notation.
notion of an appearance stream.
So every annotation in addition to
sort of a parameterized variant,
there can also be an appearance stream.
And when an annotation
has an appearance stream,
we honor the appearance
stream over the parameters.
And in fact,
they don't even have to match, you know.
I mean, if it's an appearance stream,
we just draw that appearance stream.
And the appearance stream,
it's really like a
little bit of Post Crypt.
I mean, it's just like this.
It's the same PDF drawing model.
It's a, you know,
a stream of drawing commands.
So for this circle here,
the appearance stream would, you know,
set up the bounds for this
path and stroke it with this
line thickness and this color.
So unfortunately what that means is I can
go in here and check the dashed attribute
or change the line thickness to 60,
and you don't see any
change in the annotation.
And the problem is the annotation
still has that appearance stream.
And we're still drawing that appearance
stream and we're ignoring the parameters.
One characteristic of an annotation
with an appearance stream besides
that is that when you resize it,
you can see that very clearly it's
not respecting its parameters.
Otherwise, it wouldn't get so thick.
You know,
it would stay at 8 pixels thick.
In fact,
let me take this annotation here,
this dashed, this circle that has
the dashed border on it.
And here's the fun part
of this application.
There's this whole annotation menu.
So I'm going to say new circle.
And I'm going to say,
"Pick a new one." So this
is me calling PDFKit,
there it is,
and creating a circle annotation and then
associating it with the current page.
But I get kind of a vanilla
circle annotation here.
But this one,
because there's no appearance stream yet,
I can change all of its attributes.
So I can bring up the color picker and
I'll go ahead and try to match that one.
I'll pick a kind of a pale
yellow and I'll make that,
I should probably check that first.
I'll give it a yellow interior
color and kind of a reddish
orange border and set it to,
what was that, 4 pixels?
4 pixels dashed.
And if I match the size, you'll see that,
you know,
Just the parameterized
variant looks pretty close.
The only difference
is when I resize this,
it maintains its sort of, you know,
it's being drawn solely
by its parameters,
whereas this one with an appearance
stream just scales the appearance.
Well, when, the way that these
annotations are drawn is,
again, through their draw method.
And it turns out that in PDF Kit,
you can subclass a PDF annotation
and supply its draw method,
and you can draw any kind
of an annotation you want.
So that's how you would, in fact,
do a stamp annotation,
and that's why the stamp
annotations are kind of interesting.
Because they don't have parameters,
the only way to draw a stamp
annotation is to supply.
An appearance stream.
And the way your application,
in creating a stamp application,
or a stamp annotation,
the way you would do that,
it would be to supply
your own draw method.
And so I've got one here.
If I say new stamp,
you'll see that I created, I don't know,
it's called my PDF annotation
stamp or something,
and I've supplied a draw method for
it that just draws the text Apple.
So now I've basically got no parameters.
I mean, I can give it a name.
I can give it one.
I can tell it its name is Apple.
But I can now, when I save,
that's kind of how this all works,
when I save this PDF out to disk,
the annotations draw method is called,
and that draw method is recorded
into an appearance stream.
And all the parameters and the
appearance stream are packaged up
into a dictionary for that annotation,
and all the annotation dictionaries
for that page are associated with
that page and written out to disk.
So that when you open up this PDF inside
any PDF viewer like Adobe Reader,
all the annotations are there.
And this Apple stamp annotation
will look just like that.
This one here that didn't have
any appearance stream will
have an appearance stream,
which unfortunately means that as soon
as I save this PDF and then reopen it,
I'll no longer be able to
actually edit it unless I strip
off its appearance stream.
I don't know what I could show you that.
Just go ahead and save it.
So I just wrote that file out and
if I switch here to the desktop,
let me bring up Adobe Reader.
I'll drag that on and here's our PDF.
Well, there's the,
I can see right off the bat there's
that red circle that I'd stretched.
And scrolling on down,
there's my stamp annotation with the
word apple and here's the one I created
sort of a parameterized version of.
So, that just works.
So, the last thing I'll show you,
in this annotation editor is,
let me open up,
let's open up the small PDF because
it's not as busy as the one.
And I'll show you this
kind of interesting.
I can create a button widget,
which is a kind of annotation
that the user interacts with.
And button widgets in general
have field names associated
with them because internally
there is an Acroform dictionary.
It's basically a database.
It's kind of a document database.
And for each one of these widgets,
there's the field name represents
a key in that database and then
there's a value associated with it.
A simple push button doesn't have
a value that's associated with it.
But if I make another button
and make it a checkbox here,
this one's going to have a value.
It's either on or off.
Or in this case, it's either on, yeah,
it's either yes or off.
And I could change this to, you know,
single, married, that sort of thing.
Let me turn off the background color.
And let me change this field name.
Yeah,
let me change the field name to married.
So what I'm saying is that this
checkbox now represents a kind of a
way that the user can interact with
the value for the field named Mary or
married in the Acroform dictionary.
And to show you another kind of widget,
I'll show you, here's a text widget.
Text widgets don't have real
interesting draw methods.
But I'll just put it next
to the checkbox here.
And if I switch over,
do you see this little
button in the bottom here?
I put this little test and edit button.
Basically, when I'm in edit mode,
I'm handling all the mouse downs
inside my PDF view subclass.
And I'm drawing the gray rectangles.
But when I'm in test mode here,
it's as though I just opened this PDF.
And I'm going to just call super
for all my PDF view methods.
So if I click on the checkbox,
sure enough,
I can check and uncheck that.
I can type my name or hello or
something in the text field.
Oh, you know what I forgot to show you,
though?
This button here,
let's give it an action.
And there's a method called,
or an action called reset form.
And I can specify here which form,
which field names, basically,
to reset whenever the user
clicks on this button.
Or I can say reset all items
except those that are listed.
And if I leave it blank, it says,
in effect, reset all of them,
reset everything.
So let me go back and try that out.
So now when I click on this button,
sure enough, it unchecks the checkbox and
it clears the text field.
I can redo those and try it again.
And it works.
And again,
if I just save that out to the desktop.
and open that up in Adobe Reader.
I just want to show you that
I know tricks up my sleeve.
This is a proper PDF.
There's the button and there's our
check box and I can type in text.
I'm not doing very good today.
And the button, oh, auto complete, no.
And the button, the button,
the button works.
So I guess that's it.
I've got one more slide, but I think
I'll tell you what, I've got one minute,
so I'll do this.
I'll open up a PDF that doesn't have,
well, this, that's not interesting.
Okay, the small one with two pages.
Here's something you can do in preview,
and I show you this because it
illustrates some of the functionality
in PDF Kit I've been telling you about.
Over here in the inspector,
there's a sections tab,
and I can just add a new section.
And what it's done is,
I should have shown you this beforehand,
there weren't any sections,
but I can just add a new section.
In fact, if I delete it,
you'll see there, it says no sections.
But I say add a section,
and it goes ahead and creates
a section for the current page,
and it's labeled page one, but I can,
you know,
call it title or something like that.
And similarly,
I can go down to this page,
add another section,
and so I'm basically creating
those PDF outline objects.
And if I select one and say make child,
I'm telling that to make
child of the one above.
And so now I get this whole
twist down sort of behavior
with sort of subsections.
And again,
if I save this out and to the desktop,
that whole tree gets flattened out.
And then when we open it up,
I see it's still there.
And some of the fonts went wiggy.
And open that up in PDF.
in Adobe Reader.
I hope I didn't quit Adobe Reader.
Oh, there it is.
You'll see that it's got it.
Oh, I did.
Okay.
Well, it'll take just a minute.
There.
Bookmarks, and there's the one.
I twist it down, and there's the other,
and they work.
So, there you go.
Let me just go right back to
the slides for one slide more.
There.
More information.
So, if you go to the developer
help on Apple's site,
there's a couple of
PDF Kit documentation,
a couple of PDFs, in fact.
And you go to Adobe, of course,
and they've got the PDF reference,
and that'll tell you everything you
would ever want to know about annotations
and everything else in the PDF kit,
or in the PDF spec.
PDF Kit viewer I told you about.
It's in developer examples.
You can download PDF Kit.
Linker, Link Snoop, those run on Tiger,
and then the ones
I just showed you today,
PDF Calendar and Annotation Editor,
those only work on Leopard,
but you can download those as well.
So, that's it.